On the latest Masters in Business
podcast, my conversation with Kate
Burke. She's CEO of Allspring Global
Investments, helping to run about $635
billion [music] in client assets. She
has a fascinating background. She's held
all sorts of roles, CEO, COO, CFO,
chief talent officer both at Alliance
Bernstein and Allspring. I thought this
conversation was fascinating and I think
you will also. With no further ado, my
interview with Kate Burke of Allspring
Global.
[music]
>> Kate Burke, welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Very, thank you for having me.
>> So, so we're going to get to all of your
various titles, many of which I
[laughter] I'm fascinated by, but I I
have to start with your background. So,
you study economics at Holy Cross before
getting your MBA at Kellogg. What was
the career plan? Was it always investing
in finance?
>> No, I I had an idea it might be finance,
but I grew up in Rochester, Minnesota.
Uh it was a town of 80,000. It's
probably about 120 now. Largely, the
Mayo Clinic is there and IBM is there.
And so there wasn't a lot of uh
financial
acumen that was easily available to me.
It just wasn't a career that really had
presented itself. But I was interested
in investing. I'm one of five kids. My
dad was trying and mom were trying to
save to help us pay for college. And my
dad would take talk me through the
decisions he was making even though he
was a self-taught investor as well. And
that was really the first interest I
had. My first job, one of my first jobs
was actually being a teller at a bank
because I thought this is how I'm gonna
learn about banking
>> really as a teller.
>> Didn't know that's how little I knew at
that, you know, when I was 18 years old.
There was very little, you don't have
all the information you have today
available. We didn't have the internet.
I had the Wall Street Journal
>> that I could that my dad got that I
could read. Uh, and that was really it.
>> And so I thought, well, how if I'm going
to get into banking, I might as well go
be a teller at a bank. That was
obviously not the longer term career
path I chose, but it showed an early
interest in the in finance.
>> So, so what was it? Was it your your
father that sparked the interest in
investing or was it school? What what
led you to say, "Hey, this is a
legitimate career option for them."
>> I think it was a little bit of it
started with my my dad and then
economics. I Holy Cross is a liberal
arts uh college. I had originally
thought I was going to go to a
university with a business program. So,
I knew I wanted to do business. I fell
in love with Holy Cross. Economics was
the closest major you could have as a
liberal arts uh un uh college. So, I
pursued that and then it was my first
year out of college. I actually worked
for a not for-p profofit called America.
and then uh was looking to get a job in
finance because I was very close to New
York City but not in New York City and
started networking with people to try to
learn more about jobs and finance
because I certainly had friends who had
moved into it. Uh but I ultimately went
and worked at Tommy Hilfiger instead and
so I went but that's where I really got
interested in it because I did investor
relationship.
>> That was in between college and and MBA.
>> Yes. I went
>> and what was the first job right out of
business school?
>> Uh was management consulting
>> uh at at Carney. So that that exposed
me. I call that my finishing school. You
know, you go to business school, you
learn a lot of theory. Uh by doing
consulting, you learn a lot of more
practical application. And it really I
still leverage a lot of the the things I
learned in consulting about how do you
go into something that you don't fully
know
>> ask a lot of questions learn how do you
structure a problem and then how do you
break down the work to make pro for
forward progress and being able to do
that kind that critical thinking and
that strategic planning I think has
helped me throughout my career. So,
>> so Tommy Hilfiger um consulting Tommy
Hilfiger. How did you end up at Alliance
Bernstein?
>> So, I was doing cons. So, it was Tommy
Hilfiger business school then
consulting. And at Tommy Hilfiger, I did
investor relations. So, I was the only
person in a suit
>> compared to all the other 20-year-olds
like skateboarding down the hall. So, it
was very fun in my 20s to be working
there. Uh but after business school did
was doing consulting. We were living I
had gotten married. We were living in
Ohio and we really wanted to be in New
York City. I had already lived here
once. My husband had not. And when we
moved back to New York and I was doing
consulting
I just I couldn't be in New York City in
the hub of finance and not be in
finance. And so uh using again uh
networking came across Bernstein
research
uh and said this is a place I want to
work.
>> I just absolutely loved it.
>> They they've had a great reputation for
for decades. You've had a number of
roles there. Everything from you know
across your career. Chief operating
officer, chief financial officer.
>> Tell us about chief talent officer. What
what does that involve? So, chief talent
officer, I I had moved out of sales and
sales management into the head of human
capital with which is head of HR, human
resources. And as part of that, your
role as chief talent officer, which at
an asset manager when all that you have
is your talent, right,
>> is an incredibly critical job. And what
that really is about is how do you
create better teams? How do you find na
talent, nurture talent, build talent?
How do you help uh collaboration across
silos in the organization?
How do you build um performance
management systems?
All of those things come into to how do
you build the best talent? And it was a
fantastic role for me. one that I was
worried originally about taking uh
moving from a producer, a sales producer
into a corporate function.
>> Uh I didn't say yes right away when they
offered it to me because I was I thought
of myself my my you know I thought of
myself as a revenue generator and moving
into that role was the best decision I
made because it
>> moved me one out of my comfort zone. I
was working with a group of people um
within the talent organization who were
deep practitioners of human capital
kinds of practices who had studied this.
They were passionate about it and I came
in with a business acumen and I had to
very quickly learn to work with them and
find a way to create value with people
who questioned a little bit about why I
was their boss.
>> Wasn't the first time that had happened
to me
>> really. Um and and so moved into that
role and really embraced it and uh I
came up with uh you know return on
invested capital. I came up with a
phrase return on invested time. So
anytime you ask anyone inside the
organization to do something you're
asking them to invest their time. So you
better have a return on it. And so it
stopped us from do chasing things that
may be academically interesting or fads
but really focused on the individuals
inside Alliance Bernstein and how could
we help use their time wisely to develop
themselves and to build a great firm.
I'm
>> I'm kind of fascinated by the reluctance
to go from something that is measured in
very spec can be easily quantified.
>> Here's how much uh assets we generated.
Here's the revenue that came in off of
those as either a producer or managing a
producer
chief talent officer where you're uh
responsible for attracting talent and
then retaining talent. It's a little
squishier. How can you tell and more
importantly how can senior management
tell how effectively you're doing that
job? So there are metrics still uh you
look at things like your retention uh
promotions if you have a voluntary or
involuntary turnover as ways of having
some measurement of it. You also do
cultural surveys.
>> So you will ask the employee population
a set of questions. There's firms that
do this. uh so you can compare yourself
not only uh year-over-year but also to
your peers in the industry to get a
sense of is it is it a place where
talent wants to stay. So retention is
probably the number one uh stat that you
have but the other part is are you a
good partner to the other leaders in the
organization and are you gaining their
trust? Are you helping work through
their talent issues? The number one
lesson I took away is that there are
many many ways to be a successful leader
and to build a good team. But the number
one thing that you have to do is you as
a leader have to be the chameleon to
your team. That you should be adjusting
your management style to bring out the
best of the individual ver and to give
them feedback and to help them versus
expecting that individual to mirror you.
And that was really powerful because I
think it creates this opportunity for
you to bring together a really diverse
group of talent where they have
permission to leverage their strengths.
Uh and then my goal is always to build
scaffolding around them and to ensure
that the d overall dynamic of the team
that you cover the bases of everything
you need and helping leaders see who on
their teams were really analytical
versus who were more of the culture and
people carrier versus who really
partnered well with others. and and do
you have that representation on your
team so that you can do more together
versus having five people on a team or
10 people on a team who are all carbon
copies of themselves that that tends to
lead to more siloed thinking. Uh so it
was it was really fun and I got to work
with really smart great leaders and
managers across the organization to to
learn many of those skills. It it sounds
like chief talent officer was a natural
bridge to chief executive officer. It it
yes I did not think that at the time but
when I reflect on my career it was the
best job for me to have taken and it for
all the reasons I've already stated in
terms of how you engage with talent um
and learning how to build teams but also
it gave me the opportunity to have a
seat at the table with the rest of the
senior leadership team and talk strategy
and understand how we were building the
business. Um, and it was great training
ground. Uh, I had been in the role
about a year maybe, maybe two, when we
had a CEO transition. There's a lot of
pressure on the head of human capital to
to partner with the CEO to make sure
they're successful
>> for sure.
>> And so that gave me the opportunity to
work closely with Seth Bernstein, uh,
who's the current CEO of of Alliance
Bernstein. and he is the one who then
also afforded me a lot of other
opportunities over time to take on other
roles because I became a trusted partner
to him.
>> Huh. Really, really interesting. And
then how did you end up moving from
Alliance Bernstein to Allspring?
>> I was very happy at Alliance Bernstein.
Uh I had I was the CFO and COO at the
time.
>> You were there for almost two decades,
almost 20 years.
>> Yes. and and and and I said had a number
of great roles and they really helped
build out who I am as a person and as a
as a leader today and it's a great firm.
I I have a lot of admiration still for
everyone who who works there. Uh so I
wasn't looking uh I I followed the path
of having a a a head hunter call of
which I first said no. I was not
interested in pursuing the the
conversation, not because of anything
about Offspring, but just because I was
happy with where I was.
>> And then
he said, "Well, why don't you just look
into it a little bit, read a little bit,
maybe meet with someone,
>> maybe meet with someone?" So, a very
effective head hunter in that regard.
And as uh that conversation started to
unfold, I got really excited about
Allspring because I could see all of the
potential that was there. Uh for those
of you who like who don't know
Allspring, and many people still don't,
we're our brand is only four years old,
>> but we have 635 billion of assets under
management, 450 of which are fixed
income. And nobody knows we're one of
the larger fixed income players out
there because it so there was so much
potential and such a rich history of
investment teams. It was a
multi-bboutique model. Uh it was it's it
was Wells Fargo Asset Management that
they were selling uh and had they had
sold uh and it was about two years into
its transition and there was still a lot
of work both to to do on the uh
transition out of Wells Fargo. So all of
the um uh TSA the getting out of all of
the transaction servicing agreements we
were still they were still in the midst
of that they were thinking about the
evolution of the investment platform
rebuilding out distribution
and I thought I've done a lot of this so
I can be really I can really create a
lot of value by going here and working
with such a great team great leadership
team that was already in place uh and
with so much potential that I just got
really excited about it.
>> Really, really fascinating. So, so
before we get to Allspring, let let's
talk a little bit about um AB for a
minute. I know a lot of people who who
either work there or used to work there.
>> Um the firm has evolved over the years.
What's the current um relationship with
um uh is there a parent company now?
What wasn't there?
>> Yeah. Who who's the
>> equitable? Equitable is now is now,
which is really right down the street
from them, which is kind of ironic, down
7th Avenue from where the HQ used to be.
>> So, what's interesting is Equitable is
now in Alliance Bernstein's old offices
at 1345 and Alliance Bernstein has
actually moved down to Hudson Yards,
>> which is which is really a fascinating
place as well. Um, so you've had very
distinct jobs that I think of as so
different. Chief operations officer is
very different than CFO, which is so
different than CEO. How do you shift
from one major position to another that
it's a whole like CFO is an entirely
different silo than CEO?
>> Yes. So each one of them teaches you
different areas of discipline or focus
but each time I have taken on a new role
I start I've started to establish a
little bit of a playbook which is you
know people talk about your first 90
days and and there's truth to that. The
number one thing that I do is I go in
and very quickly, and this goes back to
the story I was telling you about human
resources, is I recognize that often
times at the table I'm going to be the
person with the least amount of subject
matter expertise on a topic. And rather
than try to fake it and act like I have
all of the answers, I use a lot of
inquiry to ask questions and to and to
peel back the knowledge that they have
to share with me and to invite that into
the conversation.
And then I have the confidence that the
the other parts of the organization I've
se that I've been a part of have value
to add to that analysis and it becomes
really a conversation about where we're
going so that I'm partnering with the
the people in that in that discipline to
come up with what the strategy and
implementation plan is. And what I think
I'm good at is I'm good at focus and
execution. Uh I say a lot at Allspring,
there's no shortage of good ideas.
There's a shortage of great execution
because you can get you know we
>> I have an idea for a podcast. No, I
don't actually. But everybody has ideas,
right? It's how do you get that idea
into something that is tangible that
then you make that first step, you make
the second step and you get it off the
ground and you create the momentum and
then the willingness to pivot or change
direction based on the measurement of
are you making the progress the way you
thought and and constantly learning. So
I talk about growth mindset. How do you
engage in that? Uh, and I think that
that's been what's allowed me to be able
to move into different roles is I
appreciate how good the people are that
I'm working with.
>> Yeah. But you also have to be a quick
study because
All right. So, COO, CFO, very
operationally focused. You led Bernstein
Private Wealth, not only for a couple of
years, but really challenging years
right in the middle of the pandemic.
That's a completely different set of
skills and and set of tasks to execute.
Tell us a little bit about leading
Bernstein's private wealth.
>> So, I do think that I'm a fairly quick
study, but I work really hard to be a
quick study. I put in a lot of I put in
a lot of time.
>> Funny how that works, isn't it?
>> It really does pay off. Really can help
pay off. Uh, so, you know, with
Bernstein Private Wealth one, it had
helped that I had been at the
organization a long time. So I obviously
knew the strength of the the brand of
the proprietary nature of how they
invest for individuals actually still a
client of theirs not surprisingly. Um
and I went in and in the end so one it's
about how do you how what was the
Bernstein philosophy about investing for
for wealthy individuals and and
recognizing the strength and the legacy
the the financial advisors are very
proud of that business and so the number
one thing you have to recognize is don't
mess that up right so how do you build
on that and and try to protect that
particular partularly during challenging
times. Two, it is all about the talent.
So, there's a consistent theme there
that it's all about the talent. It was a
strong leadership team. Uh, and my role
was to come in and help steady our
business during a time of cha of a time
of challenge. And to do that, you do get
very focused on really on on the client.
this it was a wonderful reminder for me.
I'd been in sales for a long time. It
was my first job back into a client-f
facing role after Id moved into HR and I
love the clients and so being able to
talk with clients again helps give you a
lot of direction about the challenges
our adviserss are facing and my role was
to be there for our ad our adviserss.
They they give so much of themselves.
Every financial adviser, regardless of
the firm you're working at, is investing
their time and energy into the success
of other people.
>> They need someone to fill that bucket.
No. Who's doing that for them?
>> And so my view uh in that role was let
me help fill that bucket. You're under
so much pressure and duress with your
clients and and and helping them through
challenging times. How can I help
support you in that? So,
>> huh. really really interesting. So now
now let's move forward. You get
recruited to Allspring as CEO. For
people who are not familiar with
Allspring, tell us a little bit about
the firm, who the clients are, h how
they've managed to accumulate, you know,
over $600 billion.
>> Sure. So Allspring's history is is that
it was built under Wells Fargo Asset
Management really as a multi-boutique
model. So uh Wells Fargo had acquired
brands like Montgomery, Strong Capital,
uh Evergreen and they had really
functioned uh as you know sort of
independent investment teams leveraging
then the distribution and operations.
The distribution was really twofold and
and this is what we're growing out what
what we're grow leveraging to continue
to grow which was one a strength in
retail because Wells Fargo Adviserss is
our is our was our largest is our
largest client still today uh and they
were very focused on understanding the
needs of the advisor community and then
two was an institutional business that
was um largely in defined benefits and
other types of instit institutional uh
channels and so th that history was
there. Uh equity is about a third of
about a fifth probably of the assets and
then we have a liquidity business, a
money market business that is incredibly
strong. Uh and then a fixed income
business that's really two pieces. one
uh a fixed income platform that has both
credit all the way to high yield sort of
the entire curve. So my view is if you
need a fixed income strategy in your
portfolio, Allspring should be one of
them. Uh and then on the uh other side
of it was a very strong brand Galliard
which was stable value and really used a
lot in defined benefit and contribution
programs. And so we had all of those
pieces but they had all operated
independent fairly independently
>> and one what's really important for
investment portfolio managers is their
autonomy to make investment decisions
like that is what we are b what people
are buying from them is that that the
portfolio managers that they believe in
and who have established the track
record still have the autonomy to to
make those choices and I believe that
firmly. um that is sacrasant.
But that doesn't mean that they can't
talk to each other and that you can't
create an investment platform where
you're leveraging the insights
internally within Allspring to benefit
the totality of our clients and the
totality of the investment decisions.
And so that was one of the first things
I um started working on with uh John
Branco, our our head of our CIO and head
of investments was we have all of these
amazing capabilities.
They're they've historically worked
independently. We're now all under the
Allspring brand. They're all aligned
with the success of Allspring as an
organization. Is there something we can
do as we evolve the investment platform
to create more leverage across these
teams? And that's what that's the
journey that we've been on with the
investment teams.
>> Um
>> really really interesting. You you
mentioned the money market group is
separate from the fixed income group.
Kind of think them as
>> we h we separated out. I agree with you.
So when I say we have over 400 billion
in assets uh under advisement uh in
fixed income, I'm including liquidity in
that piece. So I do that is part of the
the curve, but liquidity as is such an
in a strong independent
>> piece of that asset allocation for us
that we often call it out because it
it's such it's been such a powerful um
and particularly in a higher interest
rate environment has had been a very
strong source of of flows and growth for
us. We were what were we over four four
and a half percent last summer and now
we're back in the high threes like four
and a half people forget we spent 25
years pretty much at nothing
>> nothing
>> so four and a half% wait safe liquid wow
>> why would you not why would you not have
it and you're seeing what's interesting
is you know even with advisors or or
with clients they'll they'll have money
in a deposit account earning very low
interest and then when they're put
they're trying to figure out how to put
it into work. The question of whether or
not you want to put it into equities at
the this value, right, these these
valuations right now versus saying no,
you can get a stable return off of fixed
income. Fixed income was out of favor
for a period of for a period of time. I
think we're back in the age of of fixed
income for for quite a while now where
bonds should really are really well
positioned to outperform
and really and our source of income
especially when you think of an aging
demographic who's looking for income.
There's the stability and safety of
bonds that can provide you with their
those income that income particularly
they're active managed. so we can work
through some of the unknown challenges
of our current economic environment.
>> It It's so interesting
as people are going to be hearing this,
it'll be around the time when lots and
lots of bonuses will be hitting people's
personal accounts, which means lots of
people are going to be getting phone
calls from their bank saying, "Hey, I
see there's a pile of cash here.
>> How would you like to use it?"
>> Right? And I'm I always say, well, half
of that's going to Uncle Sam. Can what
can you guarantee me that's safe? And I
and I mean guarantee. And it's like,
well, you know, there are no guarantees.
I'm like, all right, it's it's going to
it's going to go to the money market
fund. Even if it's 38, that's better
than some crazy covered call strategy
that may or may not be there for April
15th.
>> Exactly. Okay. So, one, it's a safe,
it's certainly always a safe place in
the short term to to put your liquidity.
And then in the longer term, when you
think about people's uh
wealth accumulation over time, in the
very beginning, it is simply about
starting to to grow wealth, accumulating
it. You're going to be largely in
equities in that to get that kind of
equity return.
uh and then you start to move into well
now I have to start planning for
retirement. So then preservation starts
to become more important. You want to
protect those assets and that's when you
see people tend to move more into a more
balanced portfolio. Well, then they move
into retirement and they need income and
they want that's where fixed income
really can be very beneficial or or you
know we also have a number of equity
income strategies that put off a nice
distribution and that's where you want
to have an advisor or help you
understand what is the income stream you
need to to live and pursue the life you
want in in retirement. And then the last
stage is legacy and and what do you do
as a legacy planner and how do you again
go back to that preservation of those
assets so that you can whether it's your
legacy is philanthropic or around your
family. You know, our view is we want to
partner with the the wealth advisor
along each parts of their their clients
journey and know that they can turn to
Allspring with the right set of public
market products that are beneficial to
those clients.
>> So, you're you're discussing a lot of
relationships, it sounds like, with
RAAS, registered investment
[clears throat] advisors.
>> Um, tell us a little bit about the
relationship you have with RAAS. Are
they primarily at Wells Fargo? Are they
everywhere? Give us a little bit of
insight into how Wells Fargo how
Allspring operates.
>> So, Allspring has a very strong uh
relationship with the Wells Wells Fargo
adviserss still and and and we've been
able to grow that relationship even post
separation, which I think people were
concerned about whether that continuity
would would continue or would would that
cause some friction. Instead, they're a
tremendous partner and and we can work
with them to help Wells Fargo advisers
achieve their agendas with their
financial adviserss. The same though is
true for other uh intermediaries. Morgan
Stanley, Maryland, Traymond James. These
are all other intermediary platforms
that have some Allspring product. Uh
we're looking to continue to place more
the and then we have the RAA channel
which as you know is going through a
tremendous amount of change and
investment. You're seeing consolidation.
You're seeing aggregators of RAAS uh out
there. You're seeing TAMPS uh you know
platforms that are providing a lot of
the infrastructure turnkey. Thank you.
Uh that are providing a lot of the
infrastructure and technology and
operations that advisors need and we're
able to partner with each part of that
ecosystem all the way to the independent
RAIA who's hung their shingle and built
a great business. So, one of the
investments we made in the last year was
really building out an RAIA uh sales
organization recognizing that it's
similar to intermediary
uh but as those RAAS are growing and
getting more sophisticated
having support of that growth with them
and and being able to help bridge like
this is what other sophisticated larger
aggregators are doing. How can we help
partner with you? um to to build and
protect that business has been a real
focus of ours and and that's where we
have a number of our rese
platform separately managed account
platform that is really I think powerful
when you're working uh with RAAS and and
those individual uh investors.
>> So, so let's talk a little bit about
what's going on with the the market
today. Uh by the time people hear this,
it's 2026.
what is going on that's different now
for institutional and wealth clients
that perhaps is different than what they
were looking at five or 10 years ago.
So I think one of the things we're
focused on right now is there is from uh
the from the curve perspective you know
this question of whether we're entering
into stagflation where you're seeing uh
lower growth still inflation high in low
high interest rates uh that will be
coming down is where do you position
yourself along that curve and rather
than have it just be a long duration
play. We think that investors really
need to be looking at how do they take
advantage of both the change in the
curve. We expect the the curve to
steepen uh the long end of the curve to
to steepen particularly as central banks
are figuring out how to balance the
inflation uh and lower interest rates to
to try to protect growth. You also have
heavy debt servicing loads. So while all
of them are perfectly solvent and and
can and of developed company and manage
that they care about those interest
costs. It's a big part of any uh any
government's budget and it's a growing
part and I think that that changes some
of the behavior of the curve in the long
run where we would expect that that
longer uh ed tail of it to continue to
to go higher. So playing that
intermediate part of the curve we think
is going to be really important. Uh and
you're going to want high um quality
creditdriven companies to do that. So
credit research is really going to
matter more uh versus just playing the
duration play.
>> So when we look at active management um
in equities it's kind of fallen out of
favor. They're not they don't help
themselves by pretty regularly
underperforming. Half each year half of
the active fund managers underperform
their benchmark and if you go out to
five or 10 years it's much worse. But we
really don't see the same sort of
performance in bonds. It seems that
active bond managers really bring a lot
of uh dare I say alpha to the table.
Yes.
>> Tell us a little bit about the active
side of of bond management at Allspring.
So at Allspring over 90% of our fixed
active fixed income outperform on a
three, five and 10 year basis.
>> So active management really matters in
fixed income. And I'm happy to go back
to why I believe it in equities as well.
But but focusing on fixed income for a
moment, I think part of the strength of
the Allspring platform is the deep
credit research that we do. And that
means understanding
the specific issuances and the companies
that are doing it so that you're making
the right choices. And we do run the
risk of uh and you see a little bit of
this in some of the private markets, you
know, this question of of credit and and
the strength of the underlying
businesses. If we have challenges in the
economy, that's where it comes out. And
so making those strong having a strong
view on on quality credit we think is
really important. So because it allows
you to do two things. One, we talk about
income. We think you're going to get
most of the return is going to come out
of yield. So searching for that income,
being able to harvest that income is
really important. And why we like the
intermediate part of the curve is the
duration play. So still being nimble
enough to adjust to a changing rate
environment uh either led by the central
banks or driven by inflation. How do you
position yourself along that that part
of the curve to to be able to capitalize
on that return?
>> What what are you guys seeing on uh the
private alt side? Private debt, private
equity, private credit. There has been a
land rush to that space. I get the sense
that Allspring has become a little
skeptical about that area.
>> Look, I private credit is a perfectly
good asset class and it it creates a lot
of value certainly for the economy. It
was it was it grew out of the need of
the banks pulling back on their ability
to to to make those loans. Um but it has
gotten to be a crowded space. You have
you have a number of new players that
have entered into the private credit
market. Uh if you look at future
returns, what happens with basic law of
supply and demand, you have a lot more
people supplying liquidity to that part
of the of the private credit market
wanting to make those loans means those
spreads are likely to come down. They're
going to be competing. Origination is
really going to matter in that space.
And so I think we're going to see
similar to asset managers, those who are
really good at it and those who end up
not being as well positioned for it. So
who you who you own there and who you
partner there I think is is really
important. We're choosing uh despite
many of our similarsized peers seeking
out either through acquisition of or
partnership with private credit firms.
I'll never say never. There could be a
partnership with someone that creates a
really interesting
um strategy that's specific for the
client. But you're seeing, I think, some
challenges even with what's happened so
far where people don't understand the
product. They don't understand the
liquidity. They don't understand the fee
structure. And so that's a lot of time
you have to be spending with those
adviserss trying to educate them and con
and convince them that that's the right
decision to be making versus saying no
buy your sleeve of of you know the
public liquid fixed income products and
then buy your sleeve of private credit
with whoever you choose seems to me to
be one of the paths that that
people may pursue. I I'm always
surprised when people talk about um not
understanding the liquidity. Uh go just
go back a couple of years ago to be
credit at at Blackstone where a bunch of
advisers tried to head for the exits
before the year- end marks happened.
Hey, which part of locked up for five
years is confusing in year two? It's you
got three see you in 2029. So, it's it's
look, it requires a sophisticated
investor to understand how you're lading
into illquid assets and and that's
sophisticated, right? Seven-year lockup
is oh, so I get my money back in year
two. No, sevenyear lockup and yet people
seem to not really take take it very
seriously.
>> So, that's why we are staying in the
public side. We think liquidity is
really important and and provides an
important um part of your asset
allocation. I'm not arguing against uh
clients having a piece of alternatives
in their portfolio, but understanding
the structure of what that alternatives
makeup is, whether it's private equity,
private credit, real estate,
understanding those terms, understanding
how that access h and and your comfort
level that in times of illquidity, your
asset allocation may be much higher to
those asset classes than you originally
intended because you're going to have to
use your liquid assets in a way that you
had not originally planned. And that
creates the the danger that an
individual investor in particular has in
thinking about how they're adding that
into their investment
um portfolio. And that's where a really
good advisor is going to be helpful. But
they are also all in their own education
of this now. And so who each advisor
advisors talk about how much they're
needing to learn about private credit
about tax loss management like that
we're asking more and more out of these
advisors.
So we think you can still get a really
good risk adjusted return by a pretty
traditional portfolio in the long run.
And if you look at what the S&P 500 has
done for the last 30 40 years, not too
shabby. And if you invest in that in the
long run and have enough uh liquidity to
live through the downturns and leave
those in place, that has proven to be a
winning strategy for a very long time.
And
>> and we're just, if you look at rolling
15-year periods, we just finished one of
the best 15-year periods in history.
People forget what it's like when uh
everything hits the fan and liquidity is
really valuable.
>> Yeah. I'm not I'm just not sure what
we're trying to solve for for the client
>> in saying that they need to have a
significant allocation.
>> So you're not in the 30 40 50% illquid
alts camp at all.
>> No. Defin definitely not personally and
definitely not what I would be
recommending others to do unless you're
at the really ultra high net worth part
of the curve where you have plenty of
liquidity in that 30% because you just
have so much in that account overall.
70% is such a big
>> right so that but but for many people
that's not their reality and so I think
we have to be appropriately
>> um cautious we want more people
investing for their future I do think
it's an incred you know that generating
creating wealth for yourself you know
outside of my Seth Bernstein used to say
this outside of your your your doctor
your financial adviser is probably the
next most important person and your
overall well-being outside of obviously
your family like in terms of the
professional advice that you're getting
and and I think that that's really
important to understand that individuals
that's why I believe in customization at
scale in the long run is that every
individual
you know target dates work for
retirement when you have similar people
in collected together to make a target
date decision but but the
diversification it's not just the year
you were planning on retiring ing it's
well what are the assets you have? How
big is your family? What are your other
needs that you need to be planning for?
So how do you start to create customized
solutions for the individual investor
and help the financial advisor create
those individual solutions at scale I
think is going to be the next wave in
wealth management. So you're what I'm
hearing is if you're an aspirational
investor, if you're a high- netw worth
investor, if you're a family office or
if you're an institution endowment
foundation, those are very distinct
needs and you should have very distinct
solutions to your problems.
>> Correct.
>> Really, really interesting. I only have
you for a few more minutes. I want to
get to some other questions before we
run out of time. I love your quote. What
does it mean quote being the easiest
asset manager to work with? What does
that mean in practice? And and how are
you driving that philosophy?
>> So think about who you have loyalty to.
Do you are you loyal to an airline? Are
you loyal to a hotel chain? Why are you
are you loyal to a grocery store? You're
loyal to them because you have find the
consistency of the experience you're
having with them makes you want to go
back. And it's usually pleasurable and
easy and you get what you want when you
want it at the right price with the
right level of service to bring you
satisfaction. Mhm.
>> Uh clients are no different in asset
management and we have within asset
management a lot of uh regulatory. You
have client reporting. You have
complexity of portfolios like we were
just talking about that and all and and
you then have challenges in sometimes in
an investment strategy or in the markets
generally where you're looking for good
advice. So for allspring what does it
mean? It means accessibility. Means
accessibility to our portfolio managers.
So if you if you're if you have a
question that you need to answer for a
client and you need to get a portfolio
manager or someone on their team get
that answer quickly, you get it. We're
able to provide that for you. It's also
knowing our clients and getting the
right information into their hands at
the right time leveraging technology.
It's also about all of the backend uh
the complexity of reporting, the
complexity of client on boarding. No one
wants to fill out 30 forms to open up up
an account or to start a new investment.
How do we create the ease of engagement
with Allspring for the intermediate
whether it's an institution or the
client that their money is put to work
quickly and efficiently and easily in a
way they understand and that's largely
le leveraged by really good client
relationships and then a technology
infrastructure that's being built to get
them what they want when they want it.
So, we're investing a lot in our
technology platform right now to help
achieve that.
>> Since you brought up technology, I I'm
legally obligated to ask about AI. Um,
what do you think about artificial
intelligence as applied to the wealth
management industry? How is Allspring
using AI?
>> So, I think of uh uh AI and sort of or
strategy around AI in really three ways.
One, we've turned it on in what I just
call general efficiency tools like chat
GBT. ask a question, you're going to get
a better answer than if you put it into
Google or helping you do first drafts of
writing. Like there's a lot of general
efficiency kinds of tools that are out
there that you could like really anybody
can be can use fairly quickly without a
lot of training.
>> The second phase for us is really about
partnership and who are we working with
who's also investing in AI who will help
us leverage solutions to help really
mine data. It's all about data at the
bottom. You need really clean data. So,
we're also spending a lot of time making
sure we have clean data, but you need if
you're going to query data to give you
an answer, the data better be right.
Otherwise, you're going to get the
hallucinations and false findings.
>> So, who we're trying to leverage good
partners uh in terms of building out our
our AI capabilities. And then the third
pillar of it is really our own agents
and and and the agentic AI and and what
is it that we specifically can build
inside Allspring that will help us
answer very specific questions uh
associated with our own workflow and our
own um clients and trying to invest very
specifically in business cases there.
Either in any of those scenarios though,
you need to be able to put the business
issue and and the technology. You need
to be able to be able to translate
between the two if you want to be
effective with it. And I I feel
compelled to ask you a question about
culture, not only because you were
running a wealth management shop right
in the middle of the pandemic. Um but
you've talked about the importance of
culture and how significant it is um for
there to be a unifying philosophy for
firm. Tell us a little bit about the
culture of Allspring and and how do you
maintain that? So first all the and what
our cultural s surveys have have
conveyed to us is that the client
centricity the client focus at offspring
is so high. I mean it's everything we do
is are we put what is in the best
interest of the client and I think if
you have that as your north star from a
cultural perspective and as a fiduciary
that means you're going to do the right
thing and that and that then creates a
lot of pull through whether it's in risk
management or in client servicing uh
that all is really meaningful two uh we
like we have a nice culture like I think
being I think being positive optimistic
nice to each other is really important.
You want to bring you want to build
camaraderie especially when you're
building a new organization. There are a
lot of difficult things we have we had
to tackle internally and that we're
looking to build together. So
camaraderie and focus is really I think
important. And then the third part of
the stool to me is always this always be
learning is this credible challenge
culture, right? Which is very important
where we can all sit around the table
and not agree. That's the beauty of
investing. That's the beauty of any any
diverse set of people is that you're
going to get differences of opinions and
we should be able to share those
opinions, debate those and get to a
conclusion and then move forward. But
you have to have credible challenge. you
have to have it public and in the room,
not in the conversation after the
conversation. And so that's something um
that we're really focused on as we're
bringing, you know, the these different
parts of of of Allspring together to
work more closely is everyone has a
voice and a seat at the table to express
that their perspective. Doesn't mean you
get what you want, but but but we're but
we want to hear it because that will
help us make better decisions for our
clients.
>> Credible challenge. I I like that
phrase. So last question before we get
to our favorite questions. What do you
think investors are not talking about
but should be? Could be an asset or a
geography policy. What's out there that
that just isn't getting enough
attention?
>> So AI is amazing in one way, but the
other part of AI that I think has not
gotten a lot of conversation yet is how
much energy it uses. Oh, really?
>> And the need for the energy grid.
There's a lot of infrastructure build
that's going to have to happen for the
dream of AI to be successful. And if we
aren't able to catch up our energy
infrastructure, then some of the dream
of AI is going to be tampered simply
because we don't have enough energy to
run it. And individual consumer bills
are going to go through the roof, which
is not going to be palatable either. So
to me, it's energy around AI needs more
debate and discussion.
>> Huh. Yeah. And it's already happening.
We're already seeing pockets of uh
energy bills going through the roof.
>> Exactly.
>> All right, let's jump to our favorite
questions that we ask all of our guests.
Starting with uh mentors. Who are your
early mentors who helped shape your
career?
>> So, uh one of my earliest mentors was at
Tommy Hilfiger, woman named Kathleen
Ganon uh and another woman named Lynn
Shanahan. They were just two powerhouse
women early in my career who made me
helped me believe in myself and and my
capability set. The other the can I
shift the question quickly? Sure. What I
like to talk about is my board of
directors,
>> which is a concept of that as as you
work through your career, you should be
aware of the people that you're engaging
with and how they can help you make um
good decisions in totality around your
life. So,
>> you're not referring to your corporate
board of directors, personal personal
board of directors. I love that. When I
was a young mother, I needed other young
mothers to be a part of my board who
could help me work through like the
challenges of work and and and rearing
young children. Uh as you progress in
your career, um some of them have been
on my board forever. uh my parents, my
you know my siblings are are always
available to me but I have people that
I've grown up with who have taken very
different career arcs but are really
good with people or really good with
financials or really good with strategy
decisions and who can I look at outside
of my you know people that I work with
who provide all of that to me but no I
have outside counsel and and know that
people come in and off that board at
depending on the phase I am in my own
life
>> and So, how do I how do I leverage? So,
now I'm trying to build a better
personal board of directors as a CEO
saying, who are other people who have to
experience these same sorts of
experiences that I'm going through and
how can I h build relationships with
them to help me learn and grow and gain
more so I can be more value added.
>> Really interesting. Let's talk about
books. Yep.
>> What are you reading now? What are some
of your favorites?
>> I I love historical fiction. Uh, I'm
reading Trust right now, uh, by Hernand
Diaz, I think is the last name. If I got
that wrong, you can edit it out. Um, uh,
he, it's about the, it won the Pulitzer
Prize. It was, uh, it's about the, um,
the roaring 1920s. It's four disperate
views of, and it shows how people can
believe their own narrative of if
they're adding good to the world. So,
it's like Robert Baron is in it there.
You know, there's people who are
involved in the evolution of what's
happening and some of them view that
what they're doing is good for society
when in reality the society, you know,
we went through a great depression as a
result.
>> Is that historical fiction or historical
non-fiction? [laughter]
>> That's an interesting view of it. But
it's very but it's it's fun to read and
it's uh and it's a written by an author
who's writing in four really distinctive
voices, too. So,
>> uh I enjoy it.
>> Huh. Sounds interesting. What about
entertainment? What are you either
watching or listening to these days?
What are you streaming?
>> So, when I am just winding down, I like
a a good hang with Amy Polar. I want her
to be my friend. I want most of the
people [clears throat] on that show to
be my friend. Uh she just brings such
energy and positivity and humor to it
that it's always a good one to to listen
and and wind down to. And then TVwise, I
just watched Stranger Things uh with my
children when they were back home from a
break. And I love Stranger Things
because I'm literally the age of those
kids, right? Like in the show, I'm like,
"This is my I'm like watching my youth
play back to me, riding my bikes,
building forts. My parents had no idea
where we were. Thankfully, we didn't
have any demic orans after us. But like
it it's just it's it's super fun, nostal
nostalgic." Uh, and I and and then a
great story line as well of teamwork and
perseverance and fight and all that good
stuff.
>> That that's next up in my queue. Um,
good.
>> Our final two questions. Uh, what sort
of advice would you give to a recent
college graduate interested in a career
in it doesn't matter fixed income
investing in finance?
>> One is network, network, network,
network. I got my first job because I
was trying to get a different job. I was
talking to someone to make another
introduction and ended up getting a job
with that person instead. So, you never
know. You really have to lean into to
meeting people um and being open to
where the conversation takes you. And
two, what's different now versus when I
was growing up in it is there's so much
information available with this podcast.
There's so many places to learn and be
informed. So really take control of your
career and always be learning and and
find the area that is most interesting.
If you're if you lean towards equities,
lean towards equities. If you lean
towards fixed income, but teach
yourself. Don't expect someone to teach
it to you. [clears throat]
>> And our final question, what do you know
about the world of investing today might
have been useful 25 or 30 years ago when
you were first getting started? I mean,
this is true for all the power of
compounding [laughter]
>> that comes up all the time.
>> Every time. I mean,
>> and you just don't see it when you're
younger.
>> You just don't understand it when you're
younger. And so, and investing
consistently, dollar averaging through
the good times, through the bad times.
If you have a consistency approach, you
can build a long-term durable uh
portfolio.
>> Thank you, Kate, for being so generous
with your time. We have
>> My pleasure. We have been speaking with
Kate Burke. She's the CEO of Allspring
Global Investments. If you enjoy these
questions, well, be sure and check out
any of the [music] 600 previous
discussions we've had over the past 12
years. You can find those at iTunes,
Spotify, Bloomberg, YouTube, wherever
you get your favorite podcasts. Uh, and
be sure to check out uh my new book, How
Not to Invest: The Ideas, Numbers, and
Behavior That Destroys Wealth and How to
Avoid Them at your favorite bookstore.
I'm Barry Bertz. You've been listening
to Masters in Business on Bloomberg
Radio.